W-12586482-rest-call-cv (#138)
mulesoft/docs-rpa: rpa-builder/6.2/modules/ROOT/pages/toolbox-network-rest-call.adoc

= REST Call

Use the REST Call Action Step to fetch data directly from a
server and to collect the required information in a simple way.

> You define the endpoint according to your needs and you can assign parameters or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You define the endpoint according to your needs and can assign parameters or

```

> You define the endpoint according to your needs and you can assign parameters or

Reviewer: Some day it will be good to remove the "You..." from some of the text and have the text be more direct: "Define the endpoint according to your needs and assign..."

process variables to the call, which enables you to flexibly address any

> REST interface. You can use the response in JSON format (or XML) as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REST interface. You can use the response in JSON or XML format as a

```

source variable during the remainder of the process run.

> == REST Call via a Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== REST Call via a Proxy Server

```

To make REST calls via a proxy server:

> image:configure-proxy-settings.png[75%, 75%, The Settings option inside the Workflow Initialization block and the Network Settings configuration window.]

Reviewer: Regarding alt text, Gary told me that the text should be enclosed in quotes if there are spaces in it.

[calloutlist]

> . Inside the *Workflow Initialization* block, open *Settings*.

Reviewer: From the *Workflow Initialization* block ???

. In the *Network Settings* tab, configure your proxy settings.  

The REST Call Action Step automatically retrieves the necessary information from the network settings.

> For more information about the configurable settings, see xref:workflow-initialization.adoc#properties[Workflow Settings Properties]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the configurable settings, see xref:workflow-initialization.adoc#properties[Workflow Settings Properties].

```

== Properties

* *Authentication Options* 
** *API Key Authentication Key* 
+

> The name of the API Key to use for authentication

Reviewer: At some point, it will be good to remove "The" and "A" from field descriptions. They are not needed and just add more words for users to read.

** *API Key Authentication Value* 
+
The value to use when using API Key authentication 
** *Basic Auth Credentials*
+
The credentials to use when using Basic Authentication 
** *REST Call Authentication Type* 
+

> Determines the type of authentication header to add to the call

Reviewer: This sentence needs a period because you have more text afterward. For consistency, the other descriptions in this list should have periods.

+
Available values are: 
+
*** NoAuth
*** ApiKey
*** BearerToken
*** BasicAuth

* *REST Call Settings*

** *Base Url* 
+
The base URL of the service 

** *Json Path* 
+

> The Json path to the property of the response object

Reviewer: Json > JSON

+
For example, `$.access_token`.

** *Method Type* 
+
The method type to use for the REST call
+
Available values are: 
+
*** GET 
*** POST
*** PUT
*** PATCH
*** DELETE
*** HEAD 
*** OPTIONS

** *Parse Type* 
+
Specifies how to parse the REST call result 
+
You can choose between _JsonPath_ and _XPath_. Both types enable you to extract

> exactly the information that you require without having to use special

Reviewer: I suggest "...enable you to extract the exact information..."

> scripting, which simplifies further processing as you can access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scripting, which simplifies further processing because you can access

```

the desired result immediately.
+

> The _Json Query_ Action Step enables you to read individual values from the Json object and process the result further.

Reviewer: Json > JSON

** *Request body* 
+
The request body of the REST call to send 

** *Request Body Type* 
+
The request body type of the REST call result
+

> You can choose between _Json_ and _Form URL encoded_.

Reviewer: We don't usually use italics but maybe RPA does.

** *Url Extension* 
+
A path parameter that uniquely identifies the resource

** *XPath* 
+
The Xpath expression to the property of the response object
+
For example, `/root/access_token/text()`.

== Inbound Variables

* *Base Url*
+
The base URL of the service
* *Url Extension*
+
A path parameter that uniquely identifies the resource
* *Json Path Expression*
+

> The Json path to the property of the response object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Json path to the property of the response object.

```

Reviewer: Global to have all description text in this section end with a period.

+
For Example, `$.access_token`.
* *XPath Expression* 
+
The Xpath expression to the property of the response object
+
For example, `/root/access_token/text()`.

== Outbound Variables

* *IsSuccessful* 
+

> (boolean) Shows whether the REST Call was successful or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(boolean) Shows whether the REST Call was successful or not.

```

Reviewer: Use a period for all descriptions in this section.

* *ResponseBody* 
+
(string) Returns the requested information as a string

* *FirstItem* 
+
(array) The first element of the array is output as a string

* *Status* 
+
(integer) Displays the HTTP status code
+

> For example, `200` is OK, which means the request was processed successfully and the result was

Reviewer: I have usually seen this written as `200 OK` but I don't know how it shows up in RPA.

> transferred in the answer.

Reviewer: transferred to the answer???

* *ArrayCount* 
+

> Indicates the number of elements of the returned array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of elements in the returned array.

```

== Wizard

The wizard is split into the *Settings* and *Parameters* areas.

=== Settings 

image:rest-call-wizard-settings.png[75%, 75%, The Settings section of the REST Call Wizard]

> In *Settings*, you specify the *Method Type*, that is, the required HTTP method. In the *Base Url*, you

Reviewer: This would read better as a list - up to you.

> In *Settings*, you specify the *Method Type*, that is, the required HTTP method. In the *Base Url*, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In *Settings*, you specify the *Method Type*, that is, the required HTTP method. In the *Base Url*, 

```

> specify the Host and Base Path. With the *Url Extension*, you uniquely identify the resource. You can either just type in the URL or define it via the pin variable. Use *Parse Type* to select between _JsonPath_ and _XPath_ which method to use for parsing the result. The *JsonPath Expression* specifies the path to the property of the response object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specify the Host and Base Path. With the *Url Extension*, you uniquely identify the resource. You can either just type in the URL or define it via the pin variable. Use *Parse Type* to select _JsonPath_ or _XPath_ as the method to use for parsing the result. The *JsonPath Expression* specifies the path to the property of the response object.

```

=== Parameters 

image:rest-call-wizard-parameters.png[75%, 75%, The Parameters section of the REST Call Wizard]

In the *Parameters* area, you provide the required information to the

> end point. There are various options for this, you can enter the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
end point. You can either enter the

```

> parameters directly in the URL or you can configure the parameters using the different tabs: _Request Body_,

Reviewer: Why are the tab names italicized and not bolded? Is this an RPA doc thing?

> parameters directly in the URL or you can configure the parameters using the different tabs: _Request Body_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters directly in the URL or you can configure the parameters using the following tabs: _Request Body_,

```

> parameters directly in the URL or you can configure the parameters using the different tabs: _Request Body_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters directly in the URL or you can configure the parameters using these tabs: _Request Body_,

```

> _Header Parameter_, _Query Parameter_, and _Authentication_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Header Parameter_, _Query Parameter_, or _Authentication_.

```

==== Request Body 

With the *Request Body*, you send data to the server, including, for
example, the form of communication between the server and the client.
According to convention, the methods GET, HEAD and DELETE do not require
a body (see also the network protocol RFC 7231).

> In the Parameters area you can

Reviewer: Should "Parameters" be bolded?

find the mapped variables and their *Test Values*. The mapping is
carried out via the Pin variable.

With the test values,
you can check if the REST call runs successfully. To do this, having

> entered all the data, click *Send* at the end of the

Reviewer: To do this, enter all of the data and click *Send* at the end of the wizard.

wizard.

The actual values of the mapped variables are not effective until the
production run of the Workflow.

> ===== Inserting Variables Into the Request Body 

Reviewer: This is the only level 5 heading so I would remove it. It is also deeper than we recommend for heading levels.

//image:media\image5.png[image,width=315,height=87]

> To insert the variables with the test values into the request body:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To insert the variables with test values into the request body:

```

[calloutlist]
. In the *Request body with variables* area, click the position where you want to insert the variable. 

> . In the *Test Values* section, click on the variable you want to insert. For Example `{A}: Activity Parameters.myVar`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Test Values* section, click on the variable you want to insert. For example, `{A}: Activity Parameters.myVar`.

```

image:rest-call-wizard-parameters-variables.png[75%, 75%, The Request Body section of the REST Call Wizard]

> The *Request body with variables* section shows the body with the contained variable. The *Request body with test values* section shows the body with the broken down variables of the

Reviewer: The body that contains...

> Json object. If you selected Json, the body is also highlighted for an

Reviewer: Global in text: Json > JSON

which type of request and answer is to be accepted by the server and
client. At the same time, the system checks if your entries are
compliant. You can also view the conversion of Json to form URL Encoded
under the header Parameters in the content type.

==== Header Parameter 

image:rest-call-wizard-header-parameter.png[75%, 75%, The Header Parameter tab of the REST Call Wizard]

With the *Header Parameter*, you describe exactly which resource is
collected or which answer format is required. You can add user-defined headers with the `x-` prefix, for example, `x-Customer` – `Customer ID`.
Here, you typically provide the login information for authentication of
a user to a server.

//image:media\image7.png[image,width=317,height=55]

==== Query Parameter 

image:rest-call-wizard-query-parameter.png[75%, 75%, The Query Parameter tab of the REST Call Wizard]

With the *Query Parameter*, you filter the resource and you can add
further information such as login information.

//image:media\image8.png[image,width=331,height=85]

==== Authentication

image:rest-call-wizard-authentication.png[75%, 75%, The Authentication tab of the REST Call Wizard]

> The *Authentication* tab enables you to select the authentication type to add as a header and the corresponding credentials to use. The available authentication types are _API Key_, _Bearer Token_, and _Basic Auth_. If you don't want to use any authentication method, select _None_.

Reviewer: A list of types would be better here.
